Topic no. 503, Deductible taxes | Internal Revenue Service
Skip to main content
Topic no. 503, Deductible taxes
English
Español
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Русский
Tiếng Việt
More In Help
Interactive Tax Assistant
Tools
Report fraud
Tax scams
Identity theft
Notices and letters
Appeals
Frequently asked questions
Accessibility
Contact your local IRS office
Contact an international IRS office
Tax topics
Other languages
Generally, you may take an itemized deduction, subject to limitations, for certain state, local, and foreign taxes you pay even if you did not pay the tax while in a trade or business or while carrying on a for-profit activity. You deduct the tax in the taxable year you pay them.
The categories of deductible taxes are:
State, local, and foreign income taxes or state and local general sales taxes in lieu of state and local income taxes
State and local real property taxes, and
State and local personal property taxes.
State, local and foreign income taxes or state and local general sales taxes
You may deduct as an itemized deduction,
state and local income taxes
withheld from your wages during the year (as reported on your
Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement
) and estimated state and local income taxes and prior years' state and local income taxes paid during the year. Alternatively, you can elect to deduct state and local general
sales taxes
. A general sales tax is a tax imposed at one rate on retail sales of a broad range of items. A taxpayer makes the election by checking box 5a on Schedule A of Form 1040. If you elect to deduct state and local general sales taxes, you can use either your actual expenses or the optional sales tax tables. Refer to the
Instructions for Schedule A (Form 1040)
PDF
for more information and for the optional sales tax tables. You may also use the
Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
.
Generally, you can take either a deduction or a tax credit for foreign income taxes imposed on you by a foreign country or a United States territory. For information regarding the foreign tax credit, refer to
Topic no. 856
and online tool,
Am I eligible to claim the foreign tax credit?
As an employee, you can deduct mandatory contributions to state benefit funds that provide protection against loss of wages such as required contributions to state funds providing disability or unemployment insurance benefits. Refer to
Publication 17, Your Federal Income Tax for Individuals
for the states that have such funds.
State and local real property taxes
Deductible real property taxes are generally any state or local taxes on real property levied for the general public welfare. The charge must be uniform against all real property in the jurisdiction at a like rate.
State and local personal property taxes
Deductible personal property taxes are those based only on the value of personal property such as a boat or car. The tax must be charged to you on a yearly basis, even if it's collected more than once a year or less than once a year.
Overall limit
As an individual, your deduction for state and local taxes (SALT) (lines 5a, 5b and 5c on Schedule A of Form 1040) is limited to a combined total deduction of $40,000 ($20,000 if married filing separately) subject to a modified adjusted gross income limitation but not reduced below $10,000. You may be subject to a limit on some of your other itemized deductions also. Please refer to the
Instructions for Schedule A (Form 1040)
and
Topic no. 501
for the limitations.
Nondeductible taxes
You may not deduct certain taxes and fees on Schedule A, including but not limited to:
Federal income taxes.
Social Security taxes.
Transfer taxes (such as taxes imposed on the sale of property).
Stamp taxes.
Homeowner's association fees.
Estate and inheritance taxes.
Service charges for water, sewer, or trash collection.
Taxes for local benefits (unless they're for maintenance, repair, or interest charges related to those benefits).
Refer to the
Instructions for Schedule A (Form 1040)
and
Publication 17
for more taxes you can't deduct.
Additional information
Can I deduct personal taxes that I pay as an itemized deduction on Schedule A?
Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 05-Jan-2026
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Print